Docs: start restructure (#776)
hasura/ddn-docs: docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/overview.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Basics
description: "Learn how to get started with Hasura DDN and your GraphQL API."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "@site/src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/speedometer-04.svg";
import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";

# Basics

## Introduction

> Hasura is a powerful-yet-simple-to-create API. Each tutorial in this section will guide you through creating your first
> Hasura DDN API on top of your preferred data source.

Reviewer: > Hasura is a powerful-yet-simple-to-create API

This doesn't feel accurate enough

```suggestion
Hasura DDN enables a powerful, yet simple-to-create API on all your data. Each tutorial in this section will guide you through creating your first Hasura DDN API on top of your preferred data source. First, let's go over the broad stokes of how it works.
```

Still doesn't feel perfect yet....

### You have data

Data is a broad term. What's our definition? It can be anything. No, really: anything.

> We realize that data lives in a variety of places—relational databases, non-relational databases, vector stores, OLAP,
> OLTP, and even generated on-the-fly by your functions...and you probably want to access all of it from a single
> endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your data can live in a variety of places - relational or non-relational databases, OLAP or OLTP databases, vector stores, 3rd party services, or output by your code. With Hasura you can access all of it from a single API endpoint.
```

### You connect it to Hasura

> Regardless of where your data lives, you'll connect it to your API using a **native data connector**, or data connector
> for short. These connectors will introspect your data sources and generate metadata that Hasura DDN will use to generate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of where your data lives, you'll connect it to your API using a **native data connector**. These connectors will introspect your data sources and generate metadata that Hasura DDN will use to generate
```

This we can safely leave out the "or data connector for short" especially since immediately thereafter we are using the term "connector" not "data connector".

your API.

### You configure your API in metadata

> This **semantic metadata layer** is written as Hasura Metadata Language (HML), which is an extension of YAML. You can
> use the DDN CLI and your text editor to fine-tune and configure the API to your liking; this includes easily creating
> metadata objects for permissions, relationships, configuring authentication, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This **semantic metadata layer** is written in Hasura Metadata Language (HML), which is an extension of YAML. You can edit it with your text editor and the DDN CLI, configuring objects for auth, relationships, and all other aspects of the resultant API.
```

Also, not sure here if using the full-blown "semantic metadata layer" is adding value instead of just metadata.

Author: Thanks, @seanparkross  — I took the majority of your suggestions save this one. It's a quick simplicity nod to the concept of a metadata layer, so it should stay to introduce the concept to the user. Additionally, it's subtle, but listing the CLI first introduces it as the primary authoring tool...which, aside from hand-crafting certain metadata objects, it's what users will reach for when creating the majority of their API.

### You serve the API

> When your metadata is to your liking, you'll create an immutable build — which serves as a snapshot of your API at that
> point in time — and serve it. You can then use the **console** — Hasura's GUI — or a client application to interact with
> your GraphQL API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert your metadata into something that you can query, you'll create a build - an immutable snapshot of your API at that point in time which the Hasura Engine can run serve. You can then use the **console** - Hasura's GUI - to query and analyse your GraphQL API, or integrate it with your client applications.
```
